well I'm joined right now in the Travis
Cafferty sports studio by Hunter Lee who
is now the I don't know what is your
role now at : State Warriors I'm the
head of eSports for the Golden State
Warriors and in charge of the golden
Guardians LCS team and before the start
of this interview we should probably
explain you and I have worked together
twice previously we first met at CBS I
then I helped you get your job but right
and then you came to me begging to move
back to the Bay Area and so then I
accepted you back at Yahoo right 100%
true yeah yes so we've had the you know
the misfortune of knowing you now for
almost five years and working together
twice I'm really excited that my new job
does not involve working closely with
Travis Khafre except for right now is
we're working quite closely together
physically at least
either way the point is is you know a
lot of history here and and caveat iing
the fact that you and I I think know
each other and some of the owners I
don't know yet but I do want to talk
about how this all happened for you you
know earlier today I interviewed special
Park he has been at the Rockets for like
about a year planning all this stuff
during that time we were working at
Yahoo and running and doing the whole
Yahoo eSports thing that ended in June
so really what happened to allow you to
end up here doing the whole golden
Guardians thing now yeah I mean I think
the Warriors are a you know a cautious
and conservative group by nature I think
they want to make sure that they have
their ducks in a row and then that
everything is is the way they want it
and and you know even moving into a
relatively risky space be be kind of
risk-averse I started talking to them in
July and we had a lot of conversations
to make sure that it was the right fit
for both sides and not knowing whether
they would get a franchisor not for a
long time I think there wasn't a ton of
rush on either side to to you know sort
of start a job that might not actually
turn into something down the road so I
kind of joined officially about a month
ago kept it pretty quiet until the
franchise was announced because there
wasn't really a way to talk about what I
was doing or why I was joining them
without knowing that the league thing
was announced and I think it was a it
was a quick marriage in the sense that I
think you know there there's sort of
philosophy and ethos that the Warriors
have their approach to getting into
eSports married a lot of my sort of I
think realism and perspective on weird
industry is right now and what we need
to do to kind of get it to where
everybody wants it to be yeah so you
came in was it basically a situation
like a we've applied with this golden
Guardians brand we just need to run this
thing or how much how involved have you
been both in the application process and
in everything that's followed yeah so I
wasn't involved in the application
process at all they were they were well
into that and really I didn't see you
know various of things that they applied
for I didn't really come on officially
until after they had sort of been
awarded the spot or whatever the right
language is for that but everything post
then is totally me sort of constructing
the roster figuring out strategy looking
at budgets and you know where to put
kind of money and attention finding a
team house like all of that I'm working
hand in hand closely with Kirk lekha but
the warriors who's been fantastic and
really involved in all of this but my
I'm sort of like full into execution on
all of that stuff not necessarily the
kind of background pieces that allowed
riot or we're kind of convinced riot
that we would be a great partner for
them so golden Guardians and all that
branding how did that get involved and
what how does that kind of tie in
because very clearly it's pretty closely
tied to the Warriors yeah a lot of this
stuff was sort of somewhat in the works
when I got there and ideas had been
bounced around between the team and riot
the team and you know a bunch of
internal people there was even some kind
of you know informal polling within the
eSports world where people knew I think
the Guardians is a great is a great time
the logo has a lot of elements I think
represent both the bay area and where
the brand is going and and connected to
the Warriors certainly colors wise
there's a nice W in it you know so the
vertical element matches matches the
bridge which i think is really nice and
yeah I think we want to echo Golden
State and and sort of be closely aligned
without it seeming like we're violating
any copyright issues of course or or you
know trying really hard to not violate
it while while walking all the way up to
the line I think it stands it stands
alone but it also stands alongside the
Warriors and that's that's sort of the
goal for all of this in general is that
you know it can really be a pillar
within the the Warriors organization but
but a distinct pillar that's that can
stand on its own two feet
really quickly I've seen people say the
logo is the bridge from standing up and
looking down I've seen all the stuff so
everybody agrees there's a bridge there
it looks like there's a sword there too
and then you said there's a W I've yet
to find there's a lot of layers it's
like an onion or a layer cake or
something to tell me exactly how you see
it no no I don't think there's any point
in any one person defining the logo I
think what's nice about it is that it
really is rich in iconography and you
know I've lived in San Francisco for 15
years I really see the vertical element
being the the kind of upright parts of
the Golden Gate Bridge the way they have
this sort of tiered cutouts over time
and and that that's the height to me but
I wouldn't anybody who sees something
else in there I don't think they're
wrong I think what's nice about this
logo is that it that it is really
interesting and you know I think
evocative so you had all of a lot of the
stuff was leaking or coming out ahead of
time names and all that kind of thing
what was it like for you as you're
working behind the scenes and you're
seeing kind of these not announcements
but you know people start judging the
golden Guardians name comparing it to
like some of the other names and that
kind of a must been interesting yeah I
mean the whole thing for me has been
pretty surreal too to kind of sit back
and watch this process play out somewhat
from the inside and somewhat from the
outside and not really tell my friends
or family that I had this new job that
was coming along or what my role is and
that kind of stuff
I think it's been exciting I mean that I
think you know the reception to the logo
and the name has been really positive
it's always great to hear when people
think we're the best of the new of the
new for brands or whatever along those
lines I think in general you know it's
you you always want to hit a home run
but coming up with stuff from scratch
especially for a brand that's outside of
the space and and trying to kind of move
in is difficult and I I think I'm really
happy I'm really happy with where we
ended up I'm not sure what memes you
know I'm waiting for the kind of the
memes around our team to get created and
I don't think we're there yet and
hopefully hopefully they're positive
ones but but I think we didn't sort of
stumble backwards into any embarrassing
memes yet and that that feels like a
huge success now while we're still on
topic of you you previously worked at
riot and helped run one of the things in
the NA LCS side is it strange or was
there any kind of factor even if you
hadn't joined up yet through during the
application process do you think that
there's any
raishin here were riots knowing that
you're gonna come into this maybe gave
you extra you know favored the team's
application more if so is that a bad
thing I mean you and Nick Allen who else
is in a similar situation with MSG and
CLG you know any thoughts on sort of how
that went out yeah I mean I don't think
I helped the Warriors application at all
I hope you left on such bad terms that's
right I mean hopefully I didn't hurt it
but I don't but I don't think I I don't
think it particularly I helped it at all
I think it shouldn't come as a surprise
to anybody looking at this from the
outside that Nick and I would at least
be in the conversation for a lot of
these jobs the number of people who know
riot really well know the league scene
really well are sort of adults who've
run aspects of businesses and in this
industry is it's a pretty small list and
and you know obviously I think the world
of Nick and and I'm really happy for him
and I I think I think it makes sense if
you were to ask around for
recommendations who is smart and you
know knowledgeable and experienced in
this space and could be a leader for one
of these orgs yeah Reggie would be great
right like or Jack or Steve but they've
got jobs you know like Noah didn't work
out but right like Noah could get one of
these jobs the moment he wanted one but
outside of the the people who were doing
and already there was a relatively small
list of people who I think were
qualified for this or at least
theoretically qualified for this I mean
obviously this is this is sort of
overwhelming in terms of scope and
there's a ton of things that I've never
done here before um you know it's scary
and it's a lot of work I have sleepless
nights and you know I'm working 14 16
hour days all the way through
Thanksgiving and everything else so it's
hard to say like as much as I feel like
I should be I deserve to be on a short
list I was qualified for this the a ton
of this stuff is new there are not many
people who have owned and run successful
eSports teams to draw on but I think
there are people who have been
successful in this industry in and
around the league scene for a while and
and you know Nick and I are two of those
people you know you mentioned Noah I
know immortals didn't get in and a lot
of people talking about about that but I
also feel like kind of the one of the
other kind of larger conversations that
are happening around the franchising
stuff is the ownership conflict that's
right has given a year for both sides or
both parties to resolve between golden
guardians and
teamliquid do you have any comment on
this especially somebody who previously
was involved in sort of enforcing
policing regulating this type of thing
on the LCS side I mean I think the short
answer is no no comment I think the
slightly longer answer is this is really
above my paygrade I came in after all of
these conversations that happened with
riot and even though I have a sense of
from riot side what that conversation
probably looked like it this is this is
an issue between people well above me
and this organization and other
organizations for them to sort out all I
would say is I think if riot is is
comfortable with the situation it's
because they really did their homework
that's how riot does these sorts of
things now moving into the rest of the
stuff you know I know
roster hasn't been announced yet or
anything but what has the offseason been
like for you guys once you got in
because I assume that it's been kind of
just hit the ground running go yeah I
mean it's a mad scramble I describe it
broadly speaking as I feel like I'm
really putting a puzzle together with my
eyes closed I'm interviewing for GM's
coaches players you know Scouts
performance coaches finding a house like
all of these things all at the same time
hoping that when I'm done it sort of
comes together into something that makes
sense but there were oddities during the
especially in initial stages where I'm
talking to players without having hired
a coach and I'm asking players about
what coaches they like and I'm asking
coaches about what players they like and
just trying to gather a lot of
information how much should we expect
the Guardians branding team philosophy
all of that to come in from the warrior
side and also just if you can talk to me
a little bit about how closely even on
the business side the Warriors and the
Guardians are yeah I think the Warriors
are all in on this on this opportunity
but what that looks like on a day to day
basis is still being you know sort of
figured out that the various teams are
kind of disciplines within the war you
know merch and ticket sales and you know
sort of Business and Finance and all of
these areas are really interested in
eSports and believe in the long term and
you know excited to contribute some of
their expertise to those conversations
but also understand that they don't
necessarily know anything about eSports
itself and need to make sure that when
they're making contributions they're
actually valuable towards the long-term
direction and so a lot of what that
looks like is still kind of being
figured out you know
want to hit the ground running on all
these different areas but it's harder
when you don't have players to know what
kind of sponsorship opportunities you
should go sell against these players or
you know what kind of a Content deal
they would really thrive in you know
we're looking to build an environment
that you know I'm kind of culture
philosophically and you know that breeds
success over the long term and everybody
knows that that's not really a top-down
kind of stamped on imprint there has to
be some sort of organic process that
comes from within you know from me kind
of setting it initially as part of our
eSports culture but really from our
initial hires the players that we bring
in the way the house is run you know
those kind of first six months or
whatever of sort of organic action
within the space that's gonna set the
tone for a lot of the other things and
the Warriors will sort of figure out how
they can best leverage that and enhance
it as we go forward and when you guys
let's just take team philosophy for
instance in roster building I I know for
my very limited knowledge of traditional
sports that the Warriors kind of had
this interesting approach to eventually
finding a great deal of success recently
in the NBA do you look at that as like a
guideposts for how you guys are doing
things on the Guardian side it's just
interesting to me to wonder how much of
what we see on the eSports side for some
of these NBA teams including the one
that you're working with are is going to
mirror what we see from the traditional
sports side yeah I mean I it's a great
question that this is the fundamental
differences between the NBA or most
traditional sports leagues run enters
salary cap drafts all of this kind of
talent structuring and the way contracts
are predetermined I think creates some
parallels that don't really make sense
but very at a very high level the
Warriors didn't win NBA championships by
spending more money than anybody else or
by going out and making the biggest
signings in free agency I grew up in
Washington DC
the Redskins every year spend you know
spend huge money and free agency and
really try to win in free agency and all
that winning and free agency mostly is
led to losing in football which is you
know kind of the worst words the
Warriors are definitely the opposite
they you know they won their first
championship of 2015 on the backs of
three players that they drafted in-house
and developed and playing a style of
basketball that people told them
wouldn't work or wouldn't lead to
champions or even when they're winning
tons of games and seem like the best
team in the league still people are
telling them that it's not gonna work
you know I think that's I think that
a great model that we should use and
philosophically I think represents you
know an investment and talent a
commitment to the players that you
actually find you know sort of building
a style of play in an organization
around the strengths of the players in
house and kind of believing in them and
putting them in position to succeed very
good well hey is there anything here at
the end that all right because actually
one of the interesting things the other
day marking my show hotline link we had
a fan : who's like I am a huge Warriors
fan and when they got announced I live
in the Bay Area I've become a fan of
this team there are more he said he had
friends that are doing the same thing
there's kind of culture I believe
dubnation is the name of the Golden
Warriors fans okay so you know first off
anything to say to those guys do you
think that you'll be able to grab them
in and more broadly anything that you
want to say to any of the LCS fans who
are kind of looking at the golden
Guardians saying and they're like I like
the sword bridge in their logo Oh
oh well maybe I'll cheer for them yeah
yeah I mean I think the Warriors fans if
you're a fan of the Warriors I think
you'll find a lot in our team to like I
think I think the you know the
similarities between the way we run the
way we kind of highlight our players the
kinds of players we go after in the way
they pursue success I think there'll be
a lot of similarities there and I think
he'll be happy with where we end up
LCS fans this was a crazy off season I
think you know they're probably a lot of
free agents out there looking for a team
to root for I expect it you'll find that
we'll have a really nice humble group of
guys that are trying really hard and are
really fun to root for there's a lot of
luck I mean who knows what this next
season is gonna look like I you know by
all rumors and stuff I think only eight
of the 50 players who were in the league
last year are on the same team next year
it is a wild offseason but uh but I
think we're set up for success both both
now and in the future and and that's
that's a nice place to be very good well
thank you so much for the interview
looking forward to seeing how your team
does in the next year and maybe what the
roster is in the next couple days for
everyone else you can check out the rest
of my coverage of all things eSports
right here on my youtube channel
hey everyone at the end of Yahoo eSports
oddly May made a commitment to me to
keep helping me out on this YouTube
channel and then she bailed as soon as
she could - Riot Games to get the big
bucks so if you could help me out that
be great over at traffic ever calm a
slash support